---
layout: page
type: project
heading: "Project"
title:  "Sundance.org Photo Gallery"
summary: "A tool to make decades of filmmaking history accessible and fun."
image: photo-preview.png
date:   2018-05-1
categories: ''
code: 'photo'
cta: 'View Project'
---

<div class="o-wrapper">
  <div class="o-layout o-layout--center  o-spacer__bottom--huge o-spacer__top--huge">
    <div class="o-layout__item u-2/3@desktop">
      <h3>Sundance.org Photo Gallery</h3>
      <p>Client: Sundance Institute<br>
      Role: User Experience Design, Interface Design</p>

      <p><a rel="nofollow" href="http://www.sundance.org/gallery" target="_blank">View Project</a></p>

      <h4>Framing the Problem</h4>

      <p>In 2014 Sundance.org was rebuilt from the ground up. Much of the site's content was migrated into a new content management system, however, photo galleries were not part of that migration. Photography is a necessary component of marketing's overall content plan, as well as Sundance's primary means of visually representing an institutional history that spans nearly four decades. Our goal was to create a photo viewing experience that was engaging, informative, and adopted modern design standards. </p>

      <p><strong>The Big Challenges:</strong></p>
      <ul class="">
        <li>Tens of thousands of photos would eventually populate this gallery and would need to be curated, organized, and accessible.</li>
        <li>Our design solution would need to include all of the organization’s activity, which spans dozens of programs, labs, events, and festivals. </li>
        <li>We had only a few weeks to deliver our initial solution in time for it to be built ahead of the 2017 Sundance Film Festival.</li>
      </ul>

      <h4 class="o-spacer__top--large">Time Constraints and Sacrifices</h4>

      <p>With only a few short weeks to complete our design work, we had to carefully prioritize our time. We already knew that this content was something our audience was highly interested in based on years of data. We decided that it would be most beneficial for us to involves users in prototype testing in order to validate our solution, but we needed to generate a solution very quickly.</p>

      <h4>Comparative Analysis</h4>
      <p>We organized a diverse group of participants from the marketing and technology teams to look through several different comparative products where the presentation of photography was done well. The observations from that meeting were organized into five key design guidelines:</p>


      <ul class="">
        <li>Vertical scrolling preferred method for browsing</li>
        <li>A robust search feature was necessary</li>
        <li>Tagging helps create key relationships between content</li>
        <li>UI consistency must be enforced</li>
        <li>Simplicity is paramount</li>
      </ul>


      <h4 class="o-spacer__top--large">Group Sketching</h4>
      <p>We gathered again for a two-hour session where all of the group participants carefully reviewed our design guidelines, project goals, and requirements.</p>

      <p>I then led the group through an intense, time-constrained, sketching session. First, I had them create as many ideas as possible in a very short amount of time. I then challenged each person to organize their ideas into a single concept before having each person present that concept to the group. I collected the artifacts from this meeting and used them to make a decision about which direction we should go.</p>

      <h4>The Solution</h4>
      <p>A familiar thread seemed to run through some of the ideas generated by the group, which entailed using tags as the primary mechanism for organization and navigation.</p>

      <p>By using tags as a parameter that could be queried, we could filter the gallery based on the kinds of tags the user selected or searched for.</p>

      <p>The stakeholders, who were involved in the process from the very beginning, were enthusiastic about the idea.</p>

      <h4>Prototyping and Testing</h4>
      <p>We invited a handful of users from our community to come in and allow us to watch their interactions with the new feature.</p>

      <p>The tests were very helpful in pointing out some key usability issues.</p>
      <ul class="">
        <li>Mobile tag selection and filtering was going to require more attention.</li>
        <li></li>
      </ul>
      <p></p>
      <p>Our solution more closely resembles a tool than it does an entertaining piece of content. Future iterations will need to enhance content curation and user engagement.</p>

      <h4>Takeaways</h4>
      <ul class="">
        <li>User feedback is crucial and you can’t afford to not to interact with your users on every project</li>
        <li>Compressed project timelines are not ideal, but sometimes being under the gun can force unexpected, positive creative output</li>
        <li>Involving your stakeholders and developers in your project can be tremendously helpful</li>
      </ul>


    </div>

  </div>
</div>
